Welcome back.
How did it go with the Remove method.
It should be fairly easy since we got the instrument right.
All we need to do is first check the parameters and we might want to check whether the index has a positive
number whether the index is higher than the length.
But that's something we've already talked about.
So let's get to the meat and potatoes.
The main part of all we need to do is once again get the reference to our leader.
So that is if we want to remove let's say 99 so that is index of 0 1 2.
In that case we want to make sure that we remove the 10 to 99 pointer and instead point 10 to five and
because of how memory works and garbage collected languages like javascript as soon as we remove that
reference 99 is going to get deleted.
So all we're saying now is remove this pointer and then just update this point to the this list.
And this gets deleted.
I hope that my little diagram there makes sense.
Let's code this out.
Well we first find the leader just like we did in our insert function by using this dot traverse to
index.
So I'm going say this dot traverse to Index index minus one.
And we have the leader.
Now we have the leader and we can point 10 to now point to five.
But we need a reference to this Foth and the way we get that reference is to say Konst on wanted note
that is the node we want to delete is going to have a leader dot next that is d i want to node is going
to call leader done X which is 99 and we got that very bold so we can do leader dot next to equal on
one to node dot next.
So we grab the leader and then we said this No that I don't want I want to grab it here by using leader
dot next and then make sure that we get the pointer that is 99 to 5 which is unwanted note done next
which equals to 5 the five.
Note to now be pointed from bleater dot next.
And of course so we don't forget we have to decrease the length because we're removing a node by doing
minus minus and we can just return this dot Crantz to that was too bad was it.
Let's go down here and make sure this works.
I'm going to say that we want to my linked list dot remove at index of two.
So let's remove the ninety nine.
I'm going to run this.
Look at that.
We've removed ninety nine.
If I run remove again.
Index of two that is to remove five but not print list remove and we click Run 5 gets deleted.
Very very cool.
And once again we know why delete is an operation of all of and because we have to traverse to index
and going back here we now have a better understanding of how this diagram works fire move the tail.
We have to traverse through everything one by one One by one until we hit the tail and then just remove
it and there we have it.
And I encourage you to play around with this animation a little bit more.
Having our linked list implemented.
There are other methods that we can add to it but these are the main ones of linked list that you can
see.
And this should give you a better idea of how we calculate Big O notation with linked lists and where
some of the drawbacks are.
I mean you can explain data structures for a long time but without actually coding yourself it's hard
to see why some operations take longer than others and link lists are very popular and interview questions.
And now you have the tools to build your own length list in a language that doesn't even have it natively
like javascript well done.
Getting this far in the next video we're going to introduce you to the second type of linked list that
I mentioned at the beginning.
Up until now we've created singly linked lists.
But there's also a doubly linked list.
What does that mean for that.
I'll see in the next video.